---
title: Labs 3
date: "2019-04-06T22:40:32.169Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/posts/labs-week-three"
category: "Labs 3"
tags:
  - "Labs"
  - "Context"
  - "GitHub Issues"

description: "My experience in week three of Labs"
---

**Part One**

Over this sprint, my role was mostly in the front-end. I was tasked with making sure that the state was getting properly set up and that it was available for the whole team to use. To accomplish this task, we opted to use React.Context, since our app's state isn't too complex, so React's internal state management would have worked just fine. So I had to take time to learn React Context and had to think of the best way to set it up.

## Detailed Analysis:

For the most part, I did three things this sprint. First, I had to set up React Context and I had to set it up in a way that it would grab all the necessary state as soon as the user logged in, after a thinking for a moment, I was found that grabbing the state on the same onClick function the user clicks to log on was the best place. This allowed the whole application to have access to the global state from the very beginning.

Then I focused on using that global state in the many components that needed to use it. So I used it, so that it updates the invoiceList whenever a new invoice is created or edited. Also so that it updates any user data or company data. Also when a credit is purchased or used, it updates that in the app.

Lastly, I saw that we had many bugs in the app and we weren't really tracking them. So I took the time one morning to go through the whole app and open a GitHub issue for every bug that I found. I gave them their appropriate labels, so we could tell which issues were more crucial and which could wait. 


**Part Two**

This week for me was more about teamwork than any other week. I say this because I spent more time in zoom chats working with other team members than I did working on the actual application. This was attributed to a few reasons but one of the main reasons, was because I was the only team member that had taken the time to learn react context and I was the one that implemented it. So I would be in zoom chats walking my other team members on how to use the context consumer and pull data from it. Also, I had to work with one team member to make sure that he had access to the data he needed in order to complete his task.

This sprint was a really good sprint because it really gave me a feel for how it would be to work in a team environment and mentor others in something that I may be more versed in.

