---
title: Labs 5
date: "2019-04-23T22:40:32.169Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/posts/labs-week-five"
category: "Labs 4"
tags:
  - "Labs"
  - "teamwork"
  - "Settings"

description: "My experience in week five of Labs"
---

**Part One**

Over this sprint, there was a lot of refactoring. We found that some of our code wasn't up to our standards and we decided to change a good portion of it. With this, we took the time to really talk out how our app will work and what technologies we would implement. Once everything was decided, we started to implement some of those changes. Due to this changes that we all agreed on, we found that it was necessary to extend our project an additional two weeks.

## Detailed Analysis:

The first portion was the preparation phase, so we created a Google doc, we started a zoom chat and we just talked for a couple hours about everything that needed to be changed and how we would go about it.

The second portion was the implementation phase. Here started to go component by component and refactored everything that needed to be refactored, so that it followed the new specs that we had planned out.

**Part Two**

This week really showed the importance of proper preparation and good communication. We believe that at the beginning of the project we did not properly plan out our application and because of that, there was a lot of refactoring going on. If we would have properly set everything up, we would have not had to do an extra two weeks but the good thing is that this was a learning experience for us all.

