---
title: Labs 4
date: "2019-04-23T22:40:32.169Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/posts/labs-week-four"
category: "Labs 4"
tags:
  - "Labs"
  - "teamwork"
  - "Settings"

description: "My experience in week four of Labs"
---

**Part One**

Over this sprint, I did not get to work as hard as I would like because I was sick for the first half of the sprint but when I came back, I started focusing on the settings page as much as I could but I kept being pulled off of that to work on other bugs or help connect features from the backend to the frontend. So I was not able to push up as much code as I wanted to. 

## Detailed Analysis:

When it comes to the settings page, I was tasked with creating a way to edit the user details, the company details and having the ability to add a user to a company. This task required learning how to use material-ui, changing multiple files to avoid certain bugs, and to create a few React components. I was able to push up the ability to edit user details before I was pulled away from it.

When I was started working on other bugs, I had to help other teammate mostly by Zoom chat and work out certain issues that they were facing. There were many changes done to the front-end and those changes were not properly reflected in the back-end nor in the context state, so after all those changes were made, I had to go through many files and change them to so they work properly with the changes made in the front-end.

**Part Two**

This week really showed the importance of teamwork, working together and using everyone’s strengths as a resource. At one point, I was having a bit of trouble being able to get history.push to work, I kept getting that it was undefined and I could not figure out why, so I asked another team member that is really good at React and we got together to work on that issue. We were quickly able to figure out a solution to the problem and push it up.

