---
title: Labs 2
date: "2019-03-25T22:40:32.169Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "/posts/labs-week-two"
category: "Labs 2"
tags:
  - "Labs"
  - "MongoDB"
  - "GraphQL"

description: "My experience in week two of Labs"
---

**Part One**

Over this sprint, my role was both in the front-end and back-end. In the back-end, I was focused in creating a mutation in graphQL that adds a user to a company. I refactored all the schemas so they all used the same naming and coding conventions. Then I went on to the front-end and created reusable functions allowed the front-end team make queries and mutations to the database.

## Detailed Analysis:

One of my tickets was to plan out and architect how the front-end can query and mutate the database. These queries and mutations have to be written in GraphQL since we used GraphQL in the back-end. So when planning this out, I had to keep in mind that the front-end team had not learned this technology nor how it works, so I had implement it in a way that it would be easy for the team and also in a way that it was DRY. Because of this, I knew I had to create a number of helper functions, in which the developer doing the front-end query only needs to import a function and put in a set of parameters. Making the process much simpler and streamlined.

In implementing this, I had a number of issues, from the query or mutation being interpreted as an [Object object] instead of a string to not being able to find a good way to bring to shape the data coming back. After multiple different iterations, I was able to find a pretty good solution. As a matter of fact, the solution I found, actually makes the queries even more reusable, so I was very proud of that accomplishment.


**Part Two**

This week as a team, we had a couple issues with how the authentication was set up because we could not get the authentication to work. I had no involvement with the implementation of the authentication but nonetheless, when we found ourselves fighting against the clock to get that feature working, I along with the rest of team, worked hard to find a solution to the problem. We talked as a team about what it could be causing the issue, we googled together different possible solutions and we stuck together until the very end of class to make sure that we could get it working. I found that exchange very healthy and important because I believe it solidified us as team even more.

Another moment of teamwork, was when I worked with a front-end team member because he wanted to learn how to set up GraphQL in the back-end and set up the schema for it in the database, so we both took time out of schedule on Saturday and talked about GraphQL, its benefits and how to set it up.

